{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9400\viewh16520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I can\'92t find it now, but I think the inspiration came from an example of brilliant email marketing. There was a Disney email that went out with a giant image of Mr. Incredible (or maybe it was Wreck-It Ralph) with an HTML table that was shaped like the character so that the content made sense even if the recipient had images disabled.\
\
This exampled turned into the idea to make a map out of Bootstrap grids. I thought it would make an interesting constraint that would create an fun looking map. \
\
<What is Bootstrap?>\
\
I started out in Sketch with an SVG from Wikipedia of the lower 48 states in an Albers projection. When I started looking at how I would delineate the states with horizontal rows I found the curved nature of the Albers projection to be too difficult. This was going to be a manual process so I didn\'92t want to have to create dozens and dozens of rows in HTML by hand.\
\
So I switched gears and grabbed an SVG in a Mercator projection. To create the grid I started placing horizontal lines wherever there was a horizontal or semi-horizontal state border that would need defined. This resulted in just 21 rows which seemed like a much more manageable task.\
\
The limiting factor in this exercise immediately became clear when I overlaid the 12 columns of a Bootstrap framework over top of the states. Smaller states were immediately ruled out, and many north-south borders were either going to be cut short or extended. For example the northern panhandle of Idaho is completely eliminated in favor of making Washington two Bootstrap columns wide. Only New York and Maine make it onto the grid in New England\
\
After delineating all of the rows, I started defining the states by coloring in the resulting grid. Surprisingly there weren\'92t a lot of tough calls on where the resulting states would end up. The only difficult area was around where the Ohio meets the Mississippi at MO/IL/KY, and even there it was kind of an obvious choice. IL didn\'92t extend that far south, TN that far north, or MO that far east. \
\
After the shapes were drawn in Sketch I started planning the HTML and CSS development. I knew that I had to have classes for each row with a `min-height` so the map would scale vertically. A future version might have a fixed row height based on @media query breakpoints. \
\
I measured the total height of my drawing and the heights of each row to get what the percent of the total height each row was and wrote that into the CSS classes. \
\
I also had to define colors for each resulting pseudo-shape. I used the 4-color rule of cartography to pick numbers for each state shape. The only time I came close to not being able to follow the rule was in the KS/OK/MO/AR quad.}